hey guys who's been keeping track who's
been keeping count at home this is the
1,000th video I have published on this
channel and we had to do something
something slightly out of the ordinary
to observe or no this is video number
1000 I didn't really know what to do and
the concept for this video is we could
we could cover two bases here I'm gonna
talk about the top 10 dumbest slash
greatest things that happen on this
channel guys come on what do you mean
dumbest dumbest slash greatest do you
mean that the greatest dumb thing is the
dumbest great things there what do you
mean you know being on YouTube leads you
to a lot of unexpected discussions
unexpected conflicts unexpected issues
you end up adopting positions you
thought you'd never adopt publicly or
privately questioning things and come up
with answers and things you thought you
wouldn't deal with one example that just
came to mind was I had this really
surreal dialog with a young Canadian
woman who converted to Islam after she
moved to Japan so you know I didn't
think of this channel as being in an
atheist channel or as a channel that
would you know debate that sort of thing
I ended up but but this is the kind of
really interesting
I don't know social circle or political
climate that being on YouTube draws you
into I discovered her channel back when
I was studying Japanese she has nothing
to do with veganism but she so many did
videos about learning the Japanese
language and living and working in Japan
years later she converted to Islam I
made some kind of commentary on that she
replied to me etc etc it goes on so in
these weird and unexpected ways these
are the rewards if you want to come on
YouTube for watching this video thinking
maybe I also would like to come on
YouTube and have some of these
incredibly dumb experiences that you've
you've had after thousand videos this is
the kind of reward is you get this this
kind of engagement with your audience
with other youtubers with this sort of
thing it takes your life in unexpected
directions especially especially
politically I'm so many who cares a lot
about politics and then we could also
roll into this video because it's not
that long a story to celebrate 1000 I'll
finally I can finally give the answer
the question when was the first time I
heard of veganism wanted to heard the
word vegan for the first time
and how did I end up becoming vegan so I
know melissa has her own her own story
on that and I think they're both both
stories are only a couple sentences long
so don't know don't know if it needs to
be its own video so if Melissa before
she became my girlfriend she was a she
was a fan of the channel you've seen
almost every video on this channel out
of out of a thousand videos you've maybe
seen 899 or something we don't we don't
know exactly and I just mentioned some
people complained when they look at my
channel history from their web browser
they don't get the number 999 they don't
see the same number of videos this this
should now tip it into 1000 that I get
I've put up a screenshot of that when I
am in the the YouTube uploading sweet it
tells me how many videos have uploaded
and I assume that's because some of the
videos were blocked some of them were
censored some of them were unlisted in a
couple cases I took a video now you know
I think a couple of the videos I did
with vegan cheetah or take it off you
know there are a couple things that that
came offline needs to be online but a
couple videos got got censored by
YouTube so I don't know or you know I
don't know why but for some reason
YouTube gives me I think the full and
accurate number of everything I've
uploaded and you may only get what's
visible from your region or so there's
some other reason why other listings
have the number a little bit lower few
videos that have been taken off the list
so I'm gonna give you serious here's
number one am I on my top ten list and
this will give you a sense I'm not just
interested in listing these off I'm you
know I'm interested should chat about I
don't know how these videos got made how
the conversation started or what drew me
into this but for me you know the number
one things that that comes to my mind is
I made a video titled
your cat hates you you know and I can
remember the whole process that led up
to making that video you know what I
mean I mean look when I started this
channel I thought this channel was gonna
be about politics of China you know I
was enrolled agents that he's major I
was learning Chinese came over to
Victoria I was in this whole crazy
situation and you know I really thought
that this channel was not gonna be about
veganism or not particularly my veganism
come once in a while I knew from the
very start there was actually
tension in recording the videos and I
remember one interview I did with
another guy
where he did he interviewed me and I
knew sooner or later you know my ethical
position on pets was gonna come out was
gonna have to be said on camera I get a
really negative reaction I knew that was
coming sooner or later with the audience
and if you've been plugged into veganism
as a movement for just the past five
years things have really changed I mean
I don't think it's like a situation
where I won the debate on this issue but
it so happens that my view has become
way more prevalent and way more common
in the last five years I think because
there's been more rigorous thinking
about what veganism isn't and how to
move forward but when I came on the
scene or even when I first started
toying with veganism and vegetarians
when I first got interested in these
kinds of politics which for me were
through through ecology political
ecology um the the pet centered
narrative the pet care paradigm was
dominant in in veganism dominant in in
animal rights and that line of thinking
went here's the standard for how we
treat cats and dogs when there were pets
and therefore this is how we should
treat all animals this should be the the
baseline the moral baseline these days
that term all the time and there were
movements I mean what I can say within
veganism or within animal rights where
they wanted to pass laws like a bill of
rights for animals that would basically
guarantee cats free health care free
veterinary care for cats so if some poor
or family has a hundred cats or 15 cats
or something they don't have to worry
about paying for people can just start
amassing animals that have to worry
about being responsible for their
medical costs cuz that the taxpayers all
go handle it you can already guess how
this might go horribly wrong at least in
our in our culture you know but with
that that was really the dominant
paradigm and this crazy you know
unforeseen sequence of political events
led to my making a really tough really
you know pugnacious video on that titled
your cat hates you and the sequel was
unpredictably your dog hates you and I
just I just looked it up to date those
two videos together have reached over
10,000 viewers now it's a small audience
but it's deep I mean for a video
on that topic yet such a narrow topic
for such an audience with such an
unappealing titles like you know it's
it's really easy to get an audience if
you tell people what they want to hear
you know if you're out here you know I
see that even when I was buying
groceries today I was looking at the
magazine rack and like every magazine
cover was just telling you something you
already wanted the year you know some of
the magazines are about health and diet
and lifestyle but even the ones that are
of a politics or something it's all
affirming your sense of moral
superiority or your own interests that
you're a good person and you know this
is a video that really came out and said
no you think you're doing something
morally positive by castrating and
declawing a cat and treating it like a
toy and keep you in your apartment and
you're wrong you know this this is
really morally wrong you know inside
veganism so yeah for me I mean this is a
kind of dumbest greatest moment and I
can remember when it clicked I think you
know I think it was before I recorded
the video I just realized that's got to
be the title I've got to make a video
where the title is your cat hates it
can't be a sophisticated statement about
I don't know the wilderness versus
domestication of animals no the clips
position possible on on pet ownership
and nail when I when I especially talk
to younger vegans um you know I'm really
a guy like ask yourself Isaac on his
channel he comes from a totally
different background from mto religion
framework and he sees that as obvious
and he has this whole audience around
him of younger people and they're vegan
but they see pet ownership as as deeply
flawed in this way so other people are
figuring it out they're taking their own
paths to that to that kind of conclusion
yeah I I felt like that too I thought oh
oh and believe me go on yeah right move
themselves a couple and also for babies
there are two dogs and a cat they got so
many positive responses they're like oh
you're gonna find a wonderful vegan
family right seen contrasting that to
how you're right right yeah yeah well
and and let's just start an aunt to feed
other dead animals to their Pat pets to
feed dead cows to their pet cat this is
still the norm and we still have those
justifications which are basically
identical to the justifications
meat-eaters make for eating meat
themselves not everyone shares our
perspective that's right that's that's
the big justification I love them they
love me right right I think that's the
sort of thing where it's so unwelcome
and jarring for the people hearing it
that they hear it now and maybe they
think about it a few months later you
know what comes back a few months later
but in terms of the audience who didn't
want to hear that you know yeah I mean
it's it's a very unwelcome challenge to
their whole you know
framework and I I did hear back from
some of those people there were people
who really seriously devote a lot of
their time to rescuing cats off the
street and where they feel that's their
main form of vegan activism is rescuing
and castrating feral animals and then
trying to again trying to host break
them trying to train them to pee in a
box that's what they're putting all
their time into and they call it vegan
activism so for them to stop and reflect
from a different perspective whoa
this might be kind of this might
symbolize the very opposite of what
veganism is supposed to be about you
know and again you know it's one of
those funny things I mean anyway they
wouldn't think that way about horses or
something you know I'm training a horse
the to pull a carriage or something they
they wouldn't see that way but yeah they
have all these all these kind of
deep-seated justifications so I mean in
some ways that the struggling continues
but I really do have the impression
across the board that in terms of
generational change than veganism I you
know you can look at the waves of
different forms of vegan activism after
abolition of some kind of rose and fell
the next wave coming up it does seem to
me is generally pretty harsh on on the
the pet pet care assumptions pet care
model of veganism yeah okay so number
two on my list do really direct segue
was my assault on the animal sanctuary
fundraiser from vegan my harsh critique
of his his his approach to that so the
final video in that series got over
9,000 views now again if a nishan is
watching this or something if some big
youtubers or they'll be laughing at
these small number reviews but get real
this is this is within a vegan activism
I mean this is a subculture within a
subculture within a subculture that
you're speaking to with these kinds of
videos and when I started this channel I
thought I'd be talking about politics in
China we have over 1 billion people who
are concerned and interested and have a
bigger didn't work out no interest
basically zero interested any any videos
I do but politics is China which is you
know surprising but that's that's in
some ways the way the internet works but
uh uh you know Jo vegan there's a lot of
emotional weight in that interaction
between him and
you know for me I think there is for him
to accept chatted with him a little bit
since then but you know really like 15
seconds you know but you can you can see
all this stuff had a big impact on him
Joe vegan you know he talked to my
ex-wife he was involved in the
durianrider drama he's even something
well forgotten or simple we'll never
known in the first place his channel
started off just being him and his wife
talking about their lives basically
after they lost faith in durianrider
really quickly Joe vegan was guy went to
Thailand rode his bike up toy suit app
deeply believed in especially the
ecological message driver saying he you
know he really believed in this is an
old slogan nobody remembers now a burn
rubber or not fuel you know to commit to
always riding a bicycle never using a
taxi never using a car you really wanted
to live this way and got very passionate
about it and when he lost his faith
enduring writer he started just making
videos talking about his life's it began
at that point I reached out to him said
hey I'd love to talk to you my channel
just there was no comedy there was no
drama there was nothing no other kind in
the channel and this channel took a
turning point
the first person he started doing
impersonations of or impressions of he
started doing comical it was me he
started doing a comedy bit where he'd
pretend to be me and he didn't person
ate my voice and mic off and holding my
microphone and people went nuts for it
and then all the other voices he started
doing the other personality the first
couple of minutes of it so there's a
really weird situation I remember
talking to my Chinese teacher in China
about it I was like oh yeah well my
channel is popular up to a certain
extent but there's this other channel
that does parody videos about me and the
parodies are more popular than the
famous they're making fun of this
briefly was a was a bit of a sensation
but again you see from the start of my
channel
I knew that my position on animal
sanctuaries was going to be a big deal
was gonna be a big source of tension I
knew this is someone's gonna have to
present one way or another in his case I
mean he could have totally talked to me
in terms of constructive criticism but
you know I broke down the costs how many
thousands of dollars per year you're
talking about to just keep one pig one
horse etc but you know questioning the
underlying ethical principles is this
the way forward for veganism etc so you
know and and we
a very strange situation both personally
and politically yeah and in the end
again tragically I mean I won I'm sorry
Joe vegan completely folded he deleted
his channel he stopped being vegan he
lost faith in veganism I mean you know
obvious that's not the way I wanted to
win but you know I won to a much greater
extent that I could have possibly
imagined you know I thought instead he
might just sheepishly admit that he
really never did the math that he never
thought through how much it costs or
what's involved in running an animal
sanctuary and frankly what I would have
liked to have heard from is that he
never thought it through from the
animals perspective because he know this
animals are very briefly guys but the
animal sanctuary paradigm the animal is
living in a shed on a farm it's it's
still living on a farm it's still it's
it's different in that there's no
slaughterhouse at the end of their
confinement but they're still in a
period of confinement this is like the
difference between you know being on
death row and just being in prison as a
life sentence it's it's a very very
strange thing that we're trying to
glorify as morally positive you know if
you think that a pig shouldn't live its
whole life in a wooden shed you know if
this doesn't make sense
having you know castrated domesticated
animals living with hay and a shed and
you know this is exactly this situation
you know why does it suddenly make sense
we put the word sanctuary on so again
those words those are tough questions
and it came out again this is kind of
the top 10 dumbest things but there was
you know there was a dumb person to
person you know contest of egos no doubt
I mean you know there we said there was
a personal you know because I do try to
think like well generally like it's I
mean we see all these problems with zoos
boy you just assume when you don't
charge admission when you just ask for
donations what what this difference it's
not a zoo it's a sanctuary you're right
got it what's it's worse though cuz a
lot of zoos do not all but many zoos try
to recreate their conditions in the wild
you know which for smaller creatures
especially as possible you can have an
enclosure that simulates you know and
you know a petting farm or a sanctuary
they don't even have that
yes I want to say he had a bald wig and
everything yeah he was always making
jokes about how I allegedly worked for
the CIA and this stuff he was kind of
you know riffing on the rumors about me
and amongst some raw vegans somewhat
happy yeah right right well me the other
one that's not even on this list I mean
another Channel well you know even vegan
gains I knew him back when his channel
had like 400
viewers like I knew was I didn't know
him personally I wrote him and he wrote
back you said a little bit of email back
and forth kind of thing but right right
at the beginning of his channel when he
had no significant audience well you
know the other one obviously was was
vegan cheetah Charles Marlow
where I knew him right at the beginning
I was in many ways a part of him him
rising from zero to a certain level boy
was it really there when I knew him he
had fewer viewers than I did you know
and I saw him come up to this kind of
short period of intense fame and then
and then collapse so Joe vegans another
one of those guys were just kind of that
even though there's not so many years
involved where I saw the whole arc of
their their career and you know but I
mean of all of them
I mean Joe vegans the one where I was
probably the most emotionally invested
you know when he's yeah remember he made
one particular video where he was saying
stuff about my academic situation but my
situation the University and it really
heard me you know I've told the super
far so this is my girlfriend talking to
you I probably haven't oldest minutes
before but I'm Way more psychologically
damaged but my negative experience a
university then basically anything else
I can name him so I mean my girlfriend
was with me when my father died physical
I was less upset by my father's death
then you were no shade when you you you
found a t-shirt that had the stitching
company was thinking that I should we
juggle there was this one time she had a
t-shirt she was especially fond of and
she took it out of the dryer and it was
coming apart she was really upset about
but yeah I was cuz I had complete
equanimity you know when my father died
when my various grandmothers died you
know what have you but no I mean I
really do carry a lot of a lot of pain
from my ongoing struggle with with the
university system I remember that that
really got to me
hey yo Joe vegan he also was someone you
knew he knew me we can't I kids were
friends but I Marie sent me emails of
appreciation about how meaningful my
videos were for his life and changed her
life so yeah I was a little bit more
involved there you know then I don't
know then I am with some of these other
channels that rise involved this is a
good segue the issue of being emotional
to number three on my list the alcohol
and caffeine video so I just checked the
alcohol that's basically against alcohol
the caffeine okay yeah so I was thinking
maybe you didn't remember it right I
remember that was one of the first
things in my my first email to us
right right frankly in this way to
Britain it's like resonates
everything that I've heard from when I
was growing up you know learning in in
health class that it causes brain damage
Lee right is so prevalent why do people
do this and why are we making excuses
right social lubricant yes so again just
just brief uh not to not to derail you
but yes I checked as of today twenty-two
thousand views for a for a video on that
topic
it's a huge audience it's basically like
a one-hour morality lecture with you
know some science and other types of
material thrown in but I mean you know
it's not telling you what you want to
hear it's not telling you you can lose
weight look great if there's no silver
lining in the crowd clapping you know
it's still to this day I get email from
people not that often but once in a
while I get email from people telling me
they quit drinking alcohol the day they
saw that video that's great
so you know now out of the twenty two
thousand viewers yeah I know that's five
or ten fifteen people or something but
that is really interesting and again I'd
say like the your cat hates you video
you know I think a lot of people
probably saw that video thought about it
you know maybe a few months later or
maybe a few years later it kind of
haunts you like you know gee my excuses
or my reasons for drinking alcohol they
really don't make sense you know so I
just say I think it probably said that
kind of creeping impact on on a whole
lot of people yeah so again look I mean
not a role ever thought I'd play you
know not just I mean oh look back when I
was involved in Buddhism if I become a
Buddhist preacher or something that
absolutely was the role I thought I'd
play in life but that's that's a really
interesting example of an idio of that
reaching its audience or the audience
finding the video who knows how that
happens but I don't know I mean on some
level video people felt they needed to
hear
you know what the video to say even if
they didn't want to hear
so number four even more even more edgy
in terms of the the vegan you know
demi-monde mice my videos simply titled
use soap you idiots soap and hand
washing so if you're watching this video
and haven't you have been involved in
politics but I mean you know these are
real questions do you make excuses for
people or overlook the facts say oh this
guy's a vegan you know he wants to save
the animals he wants to save the planet
so it doesn't matter that he has these
quote unquote natural hygiene views you
know I remember someone like a natural
vegan that used to be her view of the
world she used to believe that she lost
most of her teeth she had a ton of
cavities because she gave up using
toothpaste she had a period of time
where she went forward this you know
natural hygiene
you know pseudoscience so if you're
trying to cooperate and collaborate with
other vegans it's really easy to get
into a mindset of making excuses oh well
he's a little eccentric or you know this
this kind of thing but again that was a
video kind of coming down hard on the
fact that no you know it really matters
and there's a there's a very strange
kind of hypocrisy involved you know I've
gone about this all day there's a really
weird kind of white privilege it's just
like you know you live a life where you
think this doesn't matter you know you
think you can get away with it because
you don't have really horrible
immediately visible diseases like we
have in the tropics that you know that
come from not not washing your hands you
know I've talked to vegans face-to-face
about this there's one so again see this
is part of the thing that's interesting
Republicans why did I make that video
what was the background this video might
as well tell the story I don't think
I've ever told the Steyr before when I
was in Taiwan after I divorced my wife
and before I moved to this part of
Canada I met a vegan a white European
vegan guy and he was telling me proudly
that he doesn't use any soap of any kind
so on and you know look I was not as
calm and cool about it as telling the
story may suggest but I mean I asked him
I said when you when you go to the
hospital does it bother you if the
doctor hasn't washed his hands does it
bother you if they perform surgery and
they say no no we didn't clean the
the knife we don't you know we don't use
soap because he also he wouldn't wash
his he wouldn't even wash his forks and
knives he wouldn't wash his plates with
so if he didn't use soap you know at all
you know so again that's in my mind that
was the leap to you know the surgeon's
scalpel from the forks and knives you
you eat your food with and you know I
remember he was shocked to the question
because he well tell a little bit more
of the story um he said some words the
fact that he was sure you know it didn't
matter to have bacteria on his on his
fingers he did his own gardening - so he
gardened you know for his vegetables own
and I said straight to his face this is
face to face IRL this wasn't Skype or
anything from the same place in time
said to him so you're telling me you
come in after planting mangoes in your
garden and you put your fingers inside
your wife's vagina without using soap
and water that's what you're telling me
you don't think there's any problem with
that like you don't see the hygienic I
mean he was shocked but I think this I
think I won the argument um you know he
was shot but he had never thought about
the before and I think low key there was
an element of you know wow you're right
and then the other thing was this is
sorry I said before I wasn't that calm
this stuff I'm saying I was calm during
it but you know what really made me
angry really made me live it really got
to emotionally was he said like many
white hippies or white Westerners he had
been on vacation in India he said oh no
no out in the small towns in India quote
nobody uses soap and they're all
perfectly healthy and fine and nobody
gets sick and to me you know I've dealt
with that and Laos dealt with that in
Cambodia and you know it's sorry it
really infuriated me and I said to him
have you looked at the Government of
India statistics for how many people
died of diarrhea of waterborne illnesses
of flu burnell's of illnesses that can
be prevented or averted by washing your
hands have you have you looked up those
numbers you are telling me nobody does
why not just say nobody dies of
snakebites in India do you want to see
number four how many people died of
snake bites you you think washing your
hands doesn't matter you think those
people don't eat soap why you know what
you know because again there's this
weird roll of white privilege you know
so that was really where I where I lost
my cool with this guy was this claim
that you know everyone in India's is
funny so yeah that was that was part of
the background background of that and
you know anyone is I mean anyone has
been involved in humanitarian work
you know I specifically did health
sector research you know sir I mean
within the United States of America too
and I've even seen this in American
movies about you know the the big
justification you know there's the SEC
what separate-but-equal was one
justification for inequality this man
but the other one that's deeper and
broader was they have their own way of
doing things you know like oh don't
worry that black people or Hispanic
people can't access the medical care
system or can't access the school system
one of the deepest justifications was
they have their own way of doing things
you can imagine within Canada you know
well First Nations people the creative
way the den a they can't access the same
services white people do or well don't
they have their own way of doing things
you know it's it's the coldest form of
dismissive racist death sentence you're
passing on people and for him from his
perspective it's the opposite in his
mind it's wrapped up with compassion and
all these all these good things all
these positive sentiments right so yeah
that that that's for me is kind of the
emotional and intellectual background to
that to that video that just considering
what a totally unwelcome divisive
polarizing message it's reached you know
I think it reached a pretty large
audience it reached as many people as we
can hope for it to reach
[Music]
I make you mad was yes because you know
you're really meticulous about there was
yes I was the value of hand so yeah
there was another situation right
special brush you know bit of a story I
never told you never it never came up on
YouTube either when I was in Laos to
humanitarian worker there was a guy
there and he was the second time I
bumped into him he was with his daughter
so I think he's had his wife and
daughter with him and I but we're call
he was Italian she was a white European
tourist and he had done a little bit of
humanitarian work and he met me and we
were speaking in English yeah we had
Natalia next we spoke English from very
well and he said what he said oh so what
kind of humanitarian work you doing I
said well you know we work in food
security which means helping people not
starve because there are food shortages
and there's malnutrition and starvation
here and this guy laughed he laughed in
such a self-confident manner and he said
it's completely ridiculous
he claimed nobody in Laos would be
starving its this is a fifth this is a
myth and a fiction created by Western
powers to justify a division and it's
like apart from the fact that I know
this on paper
I know textbook statistics about you
know malnutrition and you know there we
had we still had diseases in northern
Laos you know you can go blind from lack
of certain fat soluble vitamins and
things you know like a vitamin
deficiency leads to lifelong blindness
and these guys that we still had some of
those kind of medieval does he think you
had sorry another condition where your
your fingers don't form properly and
that we a lot of a lot of illnesses that
have disappeared from from most of the
modern world which ultimately caused by
deficiencies and so on and we had we had
malnutrition of the the simplest kind
people just not having enough calories
not enough protein stuff and I was
involved in trying to something to help
and someone and here's this guy laughing
at it and I don't just know it on paper
I know with the face to face reality of
it and you know um you know at the time
when he said that to me I you know I did
you can imagine I did try it in a very
rational way talk through you know the
statistics and what the facts are you
know no seasonal malnutrition is real
starvation is real you know and actually
that's right the other thing but I said
to Matt that time was um that I knew
this percentage I knew what percentage
of people were malnourished in that
province in Laos
I knew stats like that off top my head
at that time I quartered in most stats
and I pointed out to him I said you know
you're saying they have unlimited food
provided by the jungle have you ever
actually sat down to an estimate how
many thousand people can live off of
mushrooms and you know berries scavenged
from the jungle that could huge area of
jungle if you said what scavenging not
farming you know bits and pieces
gathered this way it can support a very
small human population but not thousands
of people not millions of people you
know it's it's ridiculous this that you
know so I remember talking that stuff
through with him rationally and then the
second time I met him you know was this
a village in loves it's a small town
there's not a very small town and you
know so with some distance across the
way he laughingly mocked me and he said
there's the man who's gonna save thirty
two percent of people from starvation
like with his [ __ ] you know
humanitarian project you know and you
know I can tell you honestly if his
daughter wasn't standing right there
next to him I would have beaten the crap
out of that guy on the street in the
middle of that town in Laos and nobody
would have stopped me and you know
well baby the local communist party
apparatus you're coming up now you know
these things happen
you know so yeah there's a certain kind
of but you know I didn't I mean it's his
daughter and his wife were there and
it's like well I don't there are a lot
of there are a lot of ignorant people in
the world but it but it's also it's also
the person I'm talking to is wrong and
they're morally self-righteous about it
they think they are the one on a walker
say they're the person who's against
hand soap the person who thinks
starvation isn't about right yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah right right right yeah
gee what a shame that surgeons are
washing their hands boy yeah you know so
yeah I mean you know but in with this
bigger this is the darker side of my
psychology you guys are getting a
haircut of this video I got two notes
here on my top ten list for weeping on
camera
I asked Theo if he had Theo as one of my
super fans supporters on patreon I asked
you if he had a list of all the videos
in which I've broken down weeping on
camera I don't I don't think he does
several times I've broken down weeping
on camera that was that was something I
imagine I do on this channel when I
first started it always seemed to me you
know if you're keeping it real if you're
really keeping it real all the thing
you're gonna they're thinking you're
talking about things that are worth
weeping about think you're gonna weep on
camera first time ever there was a
hilarious reaction from Dom Bower Dom
Bowers a small but well-known YouTube
channel where he played the clip where I
just start to weep and he sits sits
there saying in his Scottish accent he
says this is a grown man this is a grown
man tough-as-nails can do Jordan
push-ups he's done humanitarian where he
spit over this is a grown man weeping
over the death of a chicken you know
which it was it was it was describing
chickens dying in particular or
circumstance when I was doing
humanitarian work in laws and that video
it's still a great video it's a very
very long video with me talking - sorry
- 69 Zaria is no longer on YouTube -
to my knowledge she's no longer if you
can activist yeah yeah yeah but to me at
that time I remember after we wrapped
the video chapter stop recording I was
seeing that was like this is the best
video ever on my chant this is the best
video on vegan YouTube this is amazing I
just thought it covered a lot of really
meaningful ground the agony of activism
is the the title of that we can we can
put links and the number two thing that
turns me on camera the one the the
single most viewed video on my channel
of all time was when I broke down
weeping you know talking to durianrider
sorry sir sorry talking about
durianrider in response to his kids his
allegations yep and you know so one
thing some people don't pick up on
there's a why that was so emotionally
intense you know I was jet-lagged I got
up after a nap I sat down to that video
and I mean okay look I could in terms
the background of this there's a lot I
could say that's kind of interesting as
never been said before had this conflict
with Darren Ryder and up to that point
there were really kind of two there's a
fork in the road there were two
different two different tactics I could
I could take with it and said well
either I'm gonna commit to you know
really keeping it real this way or I'm
gonna act like it's no big deal and it
doesn't bother me you know I'm gonna
kind of dismiss it that way and you
don't want on that other road the
pretending that it's it's no big deal
there were other ways to seek redress or
settle the settle the score between us
you know put it that way off camera you
could you could make it clear to him
just what a big deal it is but it's like
okay either I do it this way and we're
doing things man to man face to face or
I'm gonna be really real with the
audience I'm gonna do it this way and
we're gonna make a legal issue of this
we're gonna you know press the case
we're not actually ask for donations I'm
gonna get a lawyer and do this properly
so there are you know different you know
thought when to that and you know you
know the the path I chose so I kind of
made that decision I get up from this
nap and I really am trying to be you
know pour my heart out just be
emotionally you know real and vulner
talking about this ridiculous situation
and the electricity is flickering on and
off at least once that video you can see
that where the lights briefly go out but
as I recall so you know I didn't have a
laptop then my computer also blacked out
for half a second and then came to so
you're pouring out your heart and like
it yeah I know if the power cuts and
this video is lost I'm never gonna be
able to do this again like it's not it's
not gonna be the same you know there's
no take two for this it's you know look
you know my daughter and my divorce and
like child custody case and my
employments and you know all the impact
this is having on my life so there was
that was really part of the part of the
background to it but also emotionally it
was like okay this is the commitment to
doing this all above board to not you
know not settling anything off-camera
we're gonna do this in a publicly
accountable way we're gonna you know do
it on the books we're gonna you know get
a lawyer and do things properly in terms
of the future of the vegan movement I'm
sure I made you know the the right
decision but you know the the other path
was to basically be snide and insincere
on camera and get even off-camera and I
think that's what most people either
would have done or would have fronted
like they were gonna do but for me that
was a very very cerebral the same so I
mean I've mentioned to you too so our
that wrapped after I left Chiang Mai
I was then living in Kooning toreno
ryder was still living back and forth
between Chiang Mai and VN Chen Jian Chen
which is the capital city of Laos so I
mean there was nowhere easier for me to
hunt him down and confront him there is
nowhere easier to be blunt for me to get
away with confronting durianrider
face to face then the capital said I
still speak loshon I know how to cross
that border by bus I know how to cross
that border and not have my passport
stamped I can be in and out of there and
I can find you and you know there there
are no civil authorities will say you as
a tourist in Laos there's nothing there
me neither
you know what sir I'm in Laos is still
the wild East you
so you know there was that temptation
there it's like well you know but like
like I've said before I said under that
heading I'll say again now you know I'm
not a tough guy I just happened to be
tougher than these guys and you know in
terms of my own sense of justice I think
there are very very few justifications
for that kind of you know mmm
you know that that kind of resolution to
a situation so I did the white did it
with all the disappointments that then
entailed in terms of the Thai legal
system the lawyers and everything else
yeah yeah yeah I wept several other
times yeah right right right
oh yeah did I wait for one of those okay
oh wow really okay yeah yeah yeah there
are several others yeah yeah there was
one that was just a question from a
viewer
a question from a patreon supporter boy
I'm really for but something about you
know dignity and hope and politics and I
broke down weeping and yeah yeah but all
meaningful stuff I don't regret any of
it
I'm not weeping for no reason not
weeping because my diet and weight loss
didn't work out [ __ ] sorry but is what
you see on on YouTube you know no no
yeah I'm happy to have immortalized
those moments to the world and you know
if you can't look I've said many times
here on YouTube honesty is the only
currency we've got so okay so look maybe
this is partly under the the dumb partly
under the great heading there was also a
next number on my list here the
confrontation with Ryan from happy
healthy vegan so Ryan is the host of a
BLT vegan I was gonna say a few words
about that in terms of what built up
that situation and I don't know sorry I
don't have the number written down
several thousand people ended up seeing
the main video that spun out of that was
titled stop treating yes stop treating
women like infants you know so that was
the the crux of the thing but you know
it was a really weird that the the
situation for that conflict was Ryan was
live streaming and everyone in the
audience was saying oh wow aisel is here
you know Ryan talked out so obviously
everyone doesn't mean if one
many many people in the typewritten
comments are saying I was there a lot of
people were happy to see me and excited
and saying oh wow ranch duct ties well
this is great so a part of the bag that
I made a few comments he very much knew
I was there and he knew I was in the
queue of guests to to wait and talk to
him and I think for 30 minutes there's
something he pretended I wasn't there he
had this paper thin nobody was buying it
like as if he just didn't see me the
queue
he actually said things like oh let's
see who else is here in the list of
guests it says expert say there was
really a lot of shade and people other
people noticed the audience and pointed
out like come on Ryan you're you know
you're you're you're avoiding yeah yeah
yeah you're you're avoiding dealing with
with ISIL here so when he finally did
acknowledge I was there which was
unexpected I thought oh maybe you'll
just do this and then wrap it up it's
fine he brought me on and you know I did
really at first try to be conciliatory
and positive with them I talked about
the one thing I thought we had in common
which was Buddhism I was like well you
know Ryan Ryan you may not know this
about me but you know I was a scholar of
Buddhism for more than 10 years actually
know a lot about the religion and so
when I asked him about his own practice
and faith and what his symbol when the
religion is now his reply was
predictably complete [ __ ] I mean
Ryan knows less about Buddhism that I
know about Star Trek he's not a part of
any temple or any tradition he never has
been he has no connection to the
Buddhist faith I mean he has less
connection to Buddhism that I have to
Star Trek and I I don't get why I mean
people don't seem to do that with Islam
people don't just casually tell you
they're Muslim when they haven't read
the Quran when they've never joined a
temple or never been to a sermon or they
don't go to prayer several times a dance
on I mean there are some standards but
Ryan is indeed you know one of those
dudes and I know I mean later what he
said of me you know behind my back when
I wasn't there I know he denounced me
later and saying that I'm not a real
Buddhist you know I don't have the
traits of being real close and it's you
know I I identify as a nihilist but I
mean that kind of thing it's off I mean
even when other Jews say about me that
I'm you know I'm not I'm not a Jew it's
on what I know I know the sense in which
they mean it when they're really
dehumanizing you that way saying well
you know here you know you're it's not
that you're subhuman but your sub
buddist you know
your your button beneath this pail so
there was actually a lot of a lot of
kind of content to that that part the
the setup of the of the confrontation
and and frankly I think it's still there
and frets are White's we're talking
about I think that's the fissure between
the kind of hippie yoga mat rock crystal
worshipping side of veganism and
everybody else I think there are I mean
you can wrap up anything in the name of
compassion you know you zero with my
compassionate way I'm denigrating but
it's another four or whatever it is I
mean you can you can wrap up anything
that you can wrap up you know what I
what I thought was basically a
misogynist position it was ridiculous
thing these are twenty seven-year-old
women or something and you're dismissing
what they have to say you're dismissing
and defending what they have to say as
being just young girls and so on you
know when he misrepresented what I said
in my video and his video reached a much
larger audience to the mind so I'm it
was it was damaging its way but for me
the other interesting issue is is how
you know how we're actually criticizing
and addressing women would you talk
about a twenty seven-year-old man the
way you're talking about a twenty
seven-year-old no you wouldn't
you know those to me are really are
really worthwhile topics to to discuss
but also in this case the surrounding
scenario that led to this dumb genuinely
dumb confrontation between right it's
just it's a stupid video it's on the
greatest dumbest list you know I think
that has that's something a lot of
vegans are gonna go through because if
you're trying to put a movement together
and a lot of the people have yoga mats
and have a what is it a salt lamp that's
the current fashion crystal and are
practicing visualizing manifestations
this whole kind of pseudo religion that
you know to some extent is is infesting
veganism in 2018
yeah this this kind of confrontation is
inevitable maybe if you guys watch the
whole video and confronting where I am
you'll you'll feel some of that vibe to
this line you can really do that the
short answer is no but I mean the long
answer is you know he knew durianrider
and everyone was leaning on him to take
a position on that controversy and you
know he exactly was one of these people
who tried to get famous writing on
writing on the coattails of whoever that
was to ride on you know including
durianrider and he finally made this
really wimpy video saying look man just
cuz I've been in a few videos that
doesn't mean I really like him or
support him and you know he made this
really strange evasive video there was a
contrast to what a natural vegan had
already done what vegan Gates is already
done and so on so I think that was part
of the part of the background to it for
him for am definitely okay may be the
dumbest video on my channel of all time
but totally sincere and totally real cuz
you know my conflict with Ryan in some
ways is pretty insincere and pretty
unreal totally sincere until the real
Ted Carr worst human being ever so that
that is the first and I think only video
to have been banned from my channel for
bullying my rousing denunciation of Ted
car if you search the video was rieta
did I did censor it a few little bits
whatever I could find that was bullying
I did actually delete so a few comments
about his appearance courts that's it
out of that but you know that was a
really sincere video and so it's now up
as three or four shorter videos but that
do basically cover the same the same
content but that was you know that was
me sitting there on the microphone and
you know I don't know I think all of us
can relate to take our it's it's easy to
imagine the decisions he's you know no I
don't know I mean you know uh so I'll
relate this back even to what I just
said about about Ryan oh and and I can
relate this also to I met one of the
fans of the channel face to face my
complete chance here twenty year old guy
from Toronto but he was here visiting
Victoria you met me he met me in a vegan
restaurant while he was watching
videos from my channel about veganism oh
you know that's him
so he was a little bit freaked out to
meet me under those circumstances but
you know he told when he told me he was
20 years old he was talking about the
decisions he was making about University
in his life I said yeah it's hard being
20 years old when in 20 years old you're
just old enough that nobody's making
excuses for you anymore and you know
part of the problem with what Ryan was
doing in relation to these female
youtubers he's making excuses for is you
may think you're helping people but I
say saying to someone who's 26 27 years
old oh you're still young like don't
worry about it you don't have to take
life seriously you don't have to worry
about the consequences you have to worry
don't worry you can you know nothing
matters trivializing your whole
existence because you know you're you're
still young you know I think it's a
sickness in our society that especially
for for women you know that seems to not
end until when until 29 and a half when
do we stop making excuses for women that
way when do we stop making excuses for
young men that way when do we stop
inviting people to make those kinds of
excuses for them for themselves and yeah
I mean Ted Carr Canadian guy and you
know III just really genuinely reacted
to its in in one way it's similar to
what during Ryder you know was saying
what I was really reacting to was him
saying you don't need to have an
education you don't need to have
ambitions you don't need to try to make
a positive difference in the world you
don't take anything seriously should
just you should just live for
self-indulgence you should just live
your own happiness so I have a really
dumb but really sincerely you know kind
of angry set of videos you know
denouncing him that I don't I don't
regret it all but yeah I guess is that a
much character you don't see that often
the show is there anything you want to
add to the list babe I have one more
thing on the list it's a bit of a downer
well Wow
yeah
vegan Ava how to get ass right yeah yeah
yeah so you saw that stuff before you
ever met me or thought you'd ever meet
me did that make you think I was an
idiot or no yeah that was that was the
last thing on my list right yeah yeah no
but so I mean you know I'm Cory McCarthy
and the whole anti racism thing I just
say I never thought it had that kind of
content on my channel I you know might
come up in passing on my channel but you
know the day I made the first video
laying into Cory McCarthy which is still
one of my most watched videos one of the
most influential videos one of the
biggest deal videos on the channel it's
had a huge impact a lot of ways despite
the fact that this is again like a
subculture within a subculture within a
subculture it's a really small you know
subsection of a potential audience for
it I sent an email to a number of vegan
youtubers definitely includes including
a privileged vegan Marnie is her name
Maureen sorry definitely cluding
including marine as a recipient and
basically said to them look you know you
you know whoever it was you you know you
say you know your channels about racism
and eighty racism why aren't you
tackling you know this kind of issue
it's kind of big issue within within
vegan YouTube within the demi-monde
they're these finally eat this is huge
as you know what he's tackling it so you
know so will that positively and I sent
them the links to the video saying look
I really think somebody needs to to
tackle this issue and then i sat there
five seconds after sending the email and
i realized if i don't do it nobody is
gonna do it and still to this day i'm
right nobody did it i mean nobody else
stood up and took on cory McCarthy Tom
McCarthy it said not within not within
veganism now you know um I'm one of the
thing about that that's really
interesting and and memorable to me they
had a video on their channel a few
people may remember this I forget if
this was in the title but one of the
main issues in the in the video was what
is the difference between
the far left and the far right sort of
thing what is the difference we've left
us and whatever version of of right-wing
they identify themselves and what they
insisted on was the difference was that
they had honesty and courage and
integrity right that they really felt
this was the difference they didn't lie
about what they really thought and
really felt and so this is a common
thing in politics right where you think
might so at their racist and they're
basically saying the other side is
really secretly inwardly shares their
views they just won't admit it because
they're a bunch of hypocrites or they're
too weak they lack the courage or
honesty or integrity to say the things
that they say openly about about racism
racial inequality and and what have you
so that's that's pretty common but
immediately after I posted my my first
video criticizing Tory McCarthy in which
it doesn't even really contain criticism
it's just presenting quotations of Kim
and Terrell McCarthy stating their
position and there's an intro and
there's Arthur there's not a lot of
commentary analysis there I pretty much
say look I don't have to refute any of
this it all kind of refutes itself you
know here's here's what he has to say
about you know history of colonialism
genocide racism and when immediately
after that first video almost their
entire Channel they deleted the videos
the videos disappeared you know
including including that one the video
of Tara McCarthy sitting with the census
map census data for the United States of
where black people white people lived
and she was explaining to the camera
that she was gonna choose where she live
based on these race the scripture
looking I'm at it anyway it was
ridiculous of course every place worth
living in America is you know
cosmopolitan and as is multics mixing
the places that are white only are these
really awful redneck backwoods parts of
America that are economically dying and
where nobody wants to live so you know
it's funny looking that map was like are
you really gonna live up to this you
sure you wouldn't rather live in New
York City or something
okay um so they handle this really overt
racist material and they suddenly
deleted it all and then there was
another wave
rose and fell where they started
uploading so they were silent for a
while they started uploading race
material and then again covered their
tracks and deleted it and denied it and
so on
so that for me was also a search that
was showed the impact that I had they
did they made they made a response video
and then they deleted it almost
immediately responding to me I've seen
them react in different ways yeah but
yeah uh whether you think it's stupid or
not and whether you think this engaging
in this kind of discourse is a waste of
time or not again I bring this back the
very first example that I got into a
debate about Islam with a young woman
who converted to Islam not a
conversation I thought I'd ever have but
once you're in YouTube once you're in
the demi-monde you can see the sort of
social function it serves that you know
okay this is gonna mean something to a
couple hundred people which is let's
face it a lot more meaningful than going
to an academic conference and presenting
an academic paper to maybe twenty or
thirty people who don't really want to
be there you know what totally want to
hear it the fact that you know this is
meaningful even if it's to 100 people
you know that is you know that's the
motivation to deal with these things and
and also that motivation of hey I've
really got sinus a this is thing I'm
passionate about sign know about this
something I feel I can I can share my my
two cents on yeah okay so we're coming
up on on one hour I think to keep it
short babe I will just do my first time
I know it's to kill us
look yours is so short let's - yours -
no separate video okay all right all
right so that's a wrap UH one thousand
videos one 1000 videos and we can do we
give you a really subtle reveal
something that's never been mentioned on
YouTube before we're recording videos
now in exactly the same room in Canada
where I probably recorded like 300 or
400 of the of the early videos this is
the exact same apartment I used to live
in and that over there that is the same
wall what you see there that is the same
wall where I used to have the poster
that was just so I was gonna say that
was just I was gonna say we had we
didn't even forget we filmed so many
videos in front of that same poster this
blue poster that says citizen 4 and it's
a portrait of an American political
dissident on the poster I had that
poster up for hundreds and hundreds of
videos I took it with me from Canada to
China
I hung it on the wall of my school when
I was learning Chinese in China right
went through all these phases got rolled
up it got a little bit ripped up took it
to mongst and so on
but when we packed up to leave my show
we didn't even notice it we did so easy
to send it there on the wall so it
remained up on the wall for the next
person who moved into that apartment
when we left but this is this is the
same room the same shower in the same
kitchen new carpeting new carpeting new
paint job new deck a few other things
yeah you still count as new but yeah but
yeah so this this actual room where I
filled so many of those videos is a
really strange continuity in my life
even though obviously every single piece
of furniture in here has changed every
other single little thing is different
and indeed those who can really remember
back on this channel will remember the
video where I was ripening bananas in
the Sun I had bananas on my my laundry
one lot of drying rack doesn't were the
earliest videos on this channel and
there this is still the same this is the
same well it's not the same laundry
drawing right though the same porch and
we still do sometimes put out or put it
over bananas together yeah there you go
plot twist thanks tuning in guys